In this demonstration, we're going to look at querying logs in CloudWatch.
Throughout this demonstration,
we're going to be working with the AWS console, and follow along with
demonstration, you will need your own AWS account. A note of caution here,
anything you deploy to AWS can cost you money.
So by following along in this demonstration, you may incur costs.
I'm back in the AWS console, specifically the
CloudWatch dashboard in the London region.
Let's select Log groups, and through here, I'm going to select
the Globomantics‑CloudTrail‑Logs log group.
This log group contains log streams sent here from CloudTrail, so
let's minimize the log group details, and here, we can see my
CloudTrail log stream so let's select that, and here we can see
entries sent to CloudWatch from CloudTrail.
Now we can just look at the events through here and see their details, but
let's go to Actions and select View in Logs insights.
We're in log insights that has already being filtered
for the specific CloudTrail log.
If I just say Run query here,
it will just show us all the entries in this log
sorted by timestamp and message.
Let's change the query a little bit.
We've added a couple of extra lines here.
This sort line tells of insights which column it should sort
information on, and in this example, they should sort the
information in descending order.
We're also going to limit our results to 20 results.
So if I run this query, now we're only showing 20 results.
And if I scroll down, we can see those results.
Let's change the query a bit more. This time,
as well as the existing lines in our query, we're adding an extra filter so
that all items returned must have an AWS region of us‑east‑1.
If we scroll down, we can see all those entries,
and each one of these will have us‑east‑1 as the AWS region.
Let's change our query again.
This time, we're asking our query to make a count based on the AWS region.
So if I run this query and view the results, we can see the results for
each AWS region, so us‑east‑1 has a count of 404 entries in the log,
eu‑west‑2, 1651, so that's really useful, but can we view this
information a slightly different way? If I scroll up a bit and choose
Visualization, and instead of line,
let's choose Pie, and here we can see a pie chart representing the
different regions that have shown up in our CloudTrail log, and as
we expect, eu‑west‑2 has the largest part of that pie because that
has got the most records.
Let's try one more query. In this final query, we're doing a
similar search looking for entries that have a region of
us‑east‑1, but this time we're asking login sites to organize
those entries into 30‑second bins.
So if I run this query,
we've got a very colorful pie chart there broken into 30‑second slots.
If we click on logs, we can see the amount of entry in the log that
match us‑east‑1 for each 30‑second time period.
So log insights are a very powerful tool.
Remember,
we can save these queries if we want to use them again and again. We can also
export the results of our searches using export results.
Maybe we download the CSV file so the other tools can come
along and perform analytics against that data.
Let's go back to our CloudTrail log.
So we've seen how we can query this log stream using log insights, but
what if you wanted to be alerted by a CloudWatch alarm when a
particular entry appears in the log or appears in the log several
times. Cloudwatch alarms work with metrics.
So here, we have metric filters, if I select that,
if I select Create metric filter and then type in a pattern that I want
to search for in my logs. In the Test pattern section,
I can select my CloudTrail log, and then if I scroll down a little bit,
I can select Test pattern and it will show us how many entries in
the current log match that pattern, in our case,
AssumedRole.
If I then scroll down and select Next, we can provide a name for this filter.
We can provide a namespace and name for the metric that I
want to create and then a metric value.
So each time this pattern is seen in the log, it'll
increase the metric value by one.
I'm happy with these details, so I'll say Next and then Create metric filter.
So what we've done then is create a day new metric based on the
information found in our CloudTrail log. And now we have a metric, we can
use features like CloudWatch alarms to monitor that metric. If I slight
Metrics, here under Custom Namespaces, we can see IAMAssumeRole, I can
select that, choose the Metrics with no dimensions, although, you could
have added dimensions during the metric filter creation, and there is our
AssumeRole metric.
If I go to Alarms and say Create alarm and then select
Metric, again in the Custom Namespaces,
I can choose IAMAssumeRole and select our metric to be used in the alarm.
All of the log querying we've done on the metric filters can be done on any log
inside CloudWatch. In this module, we discussed how CloudWatch alarms can be
used to automate actions in response to changes in metrics. We discussed
gathering log information from EC2 instances, as well as operating system metric
information as well. We discussed CloudTrail events so now they can be used in
CloudWatch, and we demonstrated how we can search through logs in CloudWatch
using log insights,
and we discussed metric filters that allow us to turn logged information into
metric information that can be then used in CloudWatch alarms.
In our next module,
we'll be discussing CloudWatch log retention and CloudWatch log
archiving. So join me there and we'll continue along our Monitoring and Event Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers course.